README.md, before:

Linux Distribution - a Linux OS platform information API
========================================================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/nir0s/ld.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/nir0s/ld)
[![PyPI downloads](http://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/ld.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ld)
[![PyPI version](http://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ld.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ld)


The `ld` (for: Linux Distribution) package provides information about the
Linux distribution it runs on, such as a reliable machine-readable ID, or
version information.

It is a renewed alternative implementation for Python's
original `platform.linux_distribution` function, but it also provides much more
functionality.
An alternative implementation became necessary because Python 3.5 deprecated
this function, and Python 3.7 is expected to remove it altogether.
Its predecessor function `platform.dist` was already deprecated since
Python 2.6 and is also expected to be removed in Python 3.7.
Still, there are many cases in which access to that information is needed.
See [Python issue 1322](https://bugs.python.org/issue1322) for more
information.

The `ld` package implements a robust and inclusive way of retrieving the
information about a Linux distribution based on new standards and old methods,
namely from these data sources (from high to low precedence):

* The os-release file `/etc/os-release`, if present.
* The output of the `lsb_release` command, if available.
* The distro release file (`/etc/*(-|_)(release|version)`), if present.


## Installation

At this point, the latest version on PyPI is v0.2.9:

```shell
pip install ld
```

The latest released version is v0.5.0
([Release Page](https://github.com/nir0s/ld/releases/tag/v0.5.0)),
which is not yet on PyPI but can be installed from GitHub as follows:

```shell
pip install https://github.com/nir0s/ld/archive/v0.5.0.tar.gz
```

Installation of the latest development version:

```shell
pip install https://github.com/nir0s/ld/archive/master.tar.gz
```

## Python and Distribution Support

The `ld` package is supported on Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.4 and 3.5, and on
any Linux distribution that provides one or more of the data sources
used by this package.

This package is currently tested on Python 2.6, 2.7 and 3.5, with test
data that mimics the exact behavior of the data sources of the following
Linux distributions:

* Arch Linux
* CentOS 5/7
* Debian 8
* Exherbo
* Fedora 19/23
* KVM for IBM z Systems 1
* Mageia 5
* openSUSE Leap 42
* Oracle Linux Server 7
* RHEL 6/7
* Slackware 14
* SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 12
* Ubuntu 14


## Usage

```
python
>>> import ld
>>> ld.linux_distribution(full_distribution_name=False)
'('centos', '7.1.1503', 'Core')'
```

Several more functions are available. For a complete description of the
API, see the [latest API documentation](http://ld.readthedocs.org/en/latest/).

## Contributions

Pull requests are always welcome to deal with specific distributions or just
for general merriment.

Reference implementations for supporting additional distributions and file
formats can be found here:

* https://github.com/saltstack/salt/blob/develop/salt/grains/core.py#L1172
* https://github.com/chef/ohai/blob/master/lib/ohai/plugins/linux/platform.rb

Commit message:

Updated README.md to add documentation section.

README.md, after:

Linux Distribution - a Linux OS platform information API
========================================================

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/nir0s/ld.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/nir0s/ld)
[![PyPI downloads](http://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/ld.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ld)
[![PyPI version](http://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ld.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ld)


The `ld` (for: Linux Distribution) package provides information about the
Linux distribution it runs on, such as a reliable machine-readable ID, or
version information.

It is a renewed alternative implementation for Python's
original `platform.linux_distribution` function, but it also provides much more
functionality.
An alternative implementation became necessary because Python 3.5 deprecated
this function, and Python 3.7 is expected to remove it altogether.
Its predecessor function `platform.dist` was already deprecated since
Python 2.6 and is also expected to be removed in Python 3.7.
Still, there are many cases in which access to that information is needed.
See [Python issue 1322](https://bugs.python.org/issue1322) for more
information.

The `ld` package implements a robust and inclusive way of retrieving the
information about a Linux distribution based on new standards and old methods,
namely from these data sources (from high to low precedence):

* The os-release file `/etc/os-release`, if present.
* The output of the `lsb_release` command, if available.
* The distro release file (`/etc/*(-|_)(release|version)`), if present.


## Installation

At this point, the latest version on PyPI is v0.2.9:

```shell
pip install ld
```

The latest released version is v0.5.0
([Release Page](https://github.com/nir0s/ld/releases/tag/v0.5.0)),
which is not yet on PyPI but can be installed from GitHub as follows:

```shell
pip install https://github.com/nir0s/ld/archive/v0.5.0.tar.gz
```

Installation of the latest development version:

```shell
pip install https://github.com/nir0s/ld/archive/master.tar.gz
```

## Documentation

The API documentation for the `ld` package is on RTD:
[latest API documentation](http://ld.readthedocs.org/en/latest/).

## Python and Distribution Support

The `ld` package is supported on Python 2.6, 2.7, 3.4 and 3.5, and on
any Linux distribution that provides one or more of the data sources
used by this package.

This package is currently tested on Python 2.6, 2.7 and 3.5, with test
data that mimics the exact behavior of the data sources of the following
Linux distributions:

* Arch Linux
* CentOS 5/7
* Debian 8
* Exherbo
* Fedora 19/23
* KVM for IBM z Systems 1
* Mageia 5
* openSUSE Leap 42
* Oracle Linux Server 7
* RHEL 6/7
* Slackware 14
* SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 12
* Ubuntu 14


## Usage

```
python
>>> import ld
>>> ld.linux_distribution(full_distribution_name=False)
'('centos', '7.1.1503', 'Core')'
```

Several more functions are available. For a complete description of the
API, see the [latest API documentation](http://ld.readthedocs.org/en/latest/).

## Contributions

Pull requests are always welcome to deal with specific distributions or just
for general merriment.

Reference implementations for supporting additional distributions and file
formats can be found here:

* https://github.com/saltstack/salt/blob/develop/salt/grains/core.py#L1172
* https://github.com/chef/ohai/blob/master/lib/ohai/plugins/linux/platform.rb
